
  

  

# Overview

  

When are building applications where the volume of communications between backend and frontend is huge, it is quite possible that some communications get queued and the response arrives after a delay in such instances the client should continue engaging the user while waiting for the response to arrive or else there will be a poor user experience. This calls for reactive programming

  

## Learning Outcomes

  

  

- Understand what is Reactive Programming

  

- Learn how to implement Reactive Programming in Node.js

  

  

## Introduction

  

  

Everybody is talking about Reactive Programming and you’re curious in learning this new thing called Reactive Programming.

  

  

We want to improve the user experience. We want to make our application more responsive. We want to deliver a smooth user experience to our users without freezing the main thread, slowing them down and we don’t want to provide the poor performance to our users.

  

  

To keep the main thread free we need to do a lot of heavy and time-consuming work we want to do in the background.

  

  

According to [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reactive_programming):

  

  

>  **Reactive programming** is a [programming paradigm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Programming_paradigm) oriented around [data flows](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dataflow_programming) and the propagation of change. This means that it should be possible to express static or dynamic data flows with ease in the programming languages used, and that the underlying execution model will automatically propagate changes through the data flow.

  

## What you must do?

  


  

- First, study this [simple introduction of reactive programming](https://blog.redelastic.com/what-is-reactive-programming-bc9fa7f4a7fc)

  

- Now look at this detailed article on [reactive programming](https://blog.bitsrc.io/reactive-programming-in-javascript-with-rxjs-9db53c07ef14)

  

- Study the use of [asynchronous javascript with Node.js](https://www.twilio.com/blog/asynchronous-javascript-reactivex-rxjs-observables-nodejs)

- You can watch this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2LCo926NFLI) to learn reactive coding using simple practical examples
  

## Additional Resources

  

  

Study this [comprehensive article](https://gist.github.com/staltz/868e7e9bc2a7b8c1f754) to further your knowledge of reactive programming


## Assessment Quiz

1. Observables help you manage ____________ data.  

  A) synchronous  

  B) asynchronous  

  C) Both asynchronous & synchronous  

  D) None of above

  Answer B

2. What is the role of subscribe() in reactive programming?

  A) It allows to the user to build the email subscription features in the Node.js server

  B) Observable instance begins publishing values only when someone subscribes to it, you can subscribe using subscribe() method

  C) It is used to control the flow of data in an observable stream

  D) It is used to manage the user behaviour on a site.

  Answer B

3. What's the difference between imperative programming and reactive programming?

  Answer

  The main difference between imperative and reactive programming is that in imperative programming, we can use set of commands to define how a program is supposed to run and this paradigm is the most commonly used one. However in Reactive programming, the behaviour is determined by the data and the changes happening in it. The flow is not defined by the code, but rather the events.

4. What is the role of observer in the reactive programming?

  A) It plays the role of observing the chain of events on a website

  B) We initialize the observer object at the start of the code to define the style being used in reactive programming

  C) When we subscribe to an Observable, it will keep passing any values to an observer.

  D) It observes the load on the server and informs the server listen to manage the infrastructure to match the requirement

  Answer C

5. When you subscribe to an observer, each call of subscribe() will trigger it’s own independent setup for that given observable. Subscribe calls are shared among multiple subscribers to the same observable.  

  A) True  

  B) False
  
  Answer False