
## Assessment Quiz

1. What does MVC pattern stands for?  

	A) Mock View Control  

	B) Model view Controller  

	D) Mock View Class  

	D) Model View Class

	Answer B
	
2. Which design pattern ensures that only one object of particular class gets created?  

	A) Singleton pattern  

	B) Filter pattern  

	C) State pattern  

	D) Bridge pattern

	Answer A

3. When a class B can extends another class A, we say that

    A)  A is the superclass and B is the subclass

    B)  B is the superclass and A is the subclass

    C)  Both A and B are the superclass

    D)  Both A and B are the subclass

	Answer A

4. Which concept of Javascript is achieved by combining methods and attribute into a class?  

    A) Abstraction

    B) Inheritance  

    C) Polymorphism  

    D) Encapsulation  

	Answer D
	
5. What is the difference between .call() and .apply()?

	The function .call() and .apply() are very similar in their usage except a little difference. .call() is used when the number of the function's arguments are known to the programmer, as they have to be mentioned as arguments in the call statement. On the other hand, .apply() is used when the number is not known. The function .apply() expects the argument to be an array.

6. Is it advisable for every function to have a return value for every Javascript?

    A) Not necessary, JS doesn't require it

    B) No, Javascript function return value by themselves

    C) Yes, It advisable to do so because we won't when the function ends.

    D) Yes, Otherwise it will throw an error

	Answer C
7. A linkage of series of prototype objects is called as ________  

    A) prototype stack  

    B) prototype chain  

    C) prototype class  

    D) prototypes

	Answer B

8. What Are Some Advantages of Reactive Programming?  

    Answer

    The advantages are
        -   avoid “callback hell”
        -   a lot simpler to do async / threaded work
        -   a lot of operators that simplify work
        -   very simple to compose streams of data
        -   complex threading becomes very easy
        -   you end up with a more cleaner, readable code base
        -   easy to implement back-pressure

9. The purpose of _extensible_ attribute is to __________  
 
	A) make all of the own properties of that object non configurable  

	B) to configure and bring a writable property  

	C) “lock down” objects into a known state and prevent outside tampering  

	D) to include new properties into the object
    
	Answer C

11. Why code written in Node.JS is pretty fast although being written in JavaScript?

	A)  Node.JS internally converts JavaScript code to Java based code and then execute the same.

	B) Node.JS internally converts JavaScript code to C based code and then execute the same.

	C) Being built on Google Chrome's V8 JavaScript Engine.
    
	D) None of the above.
		
	Answer C