
  

# Overview

  

Node.js is framework with a lot of features, but it can't have all the features that are needed to build a backend. If it did, it will become really huge and take a lot of development time. For this, we have packages which work along with Node.js ,which built and maintained by other developers.

We will explore how to use those package with node.js and also explore how to make and publish our own package.

  

## Learning Outcomes

  

- Learn about package managers

- Learn to how to maintain packages in your project

- Learn to build and publish your own package.

  

## Introduction

  

A package manager is a programming language’s tool to create project environments and easily import external dependencies. You don’t have to reinvent the wheel and are able to make the most of the tools at your disposal. When working on a project or library, you may “package” your project and publish it for others.

You can usually specify dependencies, a package name, author, tags/keywords and version number. All this helps online repositories store your package and allows others to find your project. Furthermore by allowing you to create your own packages, developers are challenged to think about how their package will be used and implemented, in turn producing better and more reusable packages.

  

## What you must do?

  

- Learn about NPM - Node package manager from this from this [article](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/node-js-npm-node-package-manager/)

- Learn how can you manage the packages that are used in the your code with [package.json](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/node-js-package-json/?ref=rp)

- Learn how to [build and publish your NPM package](https://medium.com/the-andela-way/build-and-publish-your-first-npm-package-a4daf0e2431)

  
  

## Additional Resources

  

Study the [npm documentation](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli-documentation/) to learn more about this functionality

Explore the [other package managers](https://medium.com/maestral-solutions/alternative-package-managers-for-node-js-f52805b98064) which can be used instead of NPM

## Assessment Quiz
  

1. What are the functionalities of NPM in Node.js?

	NPM (Node Package Manager) provides two functionalities:

	An online repository for Node.js packages.
	Command-line utility for installing packages, version management and dependency management of Node.js packages.

2. How to install a package globally?

	A) npm install package --save

	B) npm install package --global

	C) npm install package -g

	D) npm install package

	Answer C

3. What is the difference between **dependencies** and **devDependencies** mentioned in package.json?

	Dev dependencies are used only in the development part of the application are specified in this segment. These do not get rolled out when the application is in production stage. However dependencies are needed for the application in development, staging and production.