
  # Overview

When in development, the application is built on our computer, but it is important the application runs everywhere, otherwise it won't serve any purpose.

We will explore how can we use various settings to ensure our application is agnostic to various parameters of a system.

## Learning Outcomes

- Learn about environment variables, how to configure them and use to them to run the application according to our parameters.

## Introduction

An [_environment variable_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Environment_variable) is a variable whose value is set outside the program, typically through functionality built into the operating system or microservice. An environment variable is made up of a name/value pair, and any number may be created and available for reference at a point in time.
  
The primary use case for environment variables is to limit the need to modify and re-release an application due to changes in configuration data.

Use cases for environment variables include but are not limited to data such as:

- Execution mode (e.g., production, development, staging, etc.)
- Domain names
- API URL/URI’s
- Public and private authentication keys (only secure in server applications)
- Group mail addresses, such as those for marketing, support, sales, etc.
- Service account names

## What you must do?
  - Get started with configuration of Environment Variables with this [article](https://www.twilio.com/blog/working-with-environment-variables-in-node-js-html).
- Then continue learning with this [detailed article](https://medium.com/the-node-js-collection/making-your-node-js-work-everywhere-with-environment-variables-2da8cdf6e786#:~:text=Environment%20variables%20are%20a%20fundamental,configuration%2C%20you%20use%20environment%20variables).

## Assessment Quiz

1. What is the role of environment variables in Node.js 
  A. Environment Variables are used to store authentication keys
  B. Manage domain names and other credentials
  C. Maintain the status of the development, staging and production of the code
  D. All of the above

	Answer D
2. Should environment variables be included the repository of the code?
  A. True
  B. False

  Answer B