
## Assessment Quiz

1. When communicating with server using websocket which two parameters define the webserver?
	A. IP address and ISP name
	B. MAC address and IP address
	C. IP address and Port
	D. Server Alias and DNS name

	Answer C

2. What is the scheme that is used to connect to websockets?
	A. http://
	B. tcp://
	C. amqp://
	D. ws://

	Answer D

3.  Which of the following can be used to create websocket in node.js
	A. net module
	B. socket.io
	C. websockets
	D. All of these
	Answer D

4. Which of the following is not an event in Readable streams?
	A. close
	B. start
	C. error
	D. end
	Answer B

5. Which of the following is not Duplex Stream?
	A.  http requests
	B. zlib streams
	C. crypto streams
	D. TCP sockets
	Answer A

6. What is the different between flowing mode and paused mode of a Readable Stream?
	Answer
-   In flowing mode, data is read from the underlying system automatically and provided to an application as quickly as possible using events via the  EventEmitter  interface.
-   In paused mode, the  stream.read() method must be called explicitly to read chunks of data from the stream.

7. How to install only those packages which are needed for production?
	A. `npm install`
	B. `npm install -p`
	C. `npm install --production`
	D. `npm update --production`

	Answer C

8. How can microservices communicate with each other?
	A.  HTTP requests and response
	B. Websockets
	C. Message Brokers like RabbitMQ, Kafka, Redis
	D. All of the above

	Answer D
	
9. Changes in database and models in a microservice will not affect the other microservices
	A. True
	B. False
	Answer A 
10. What is callback hell?
This is a big issue caused by coding with complex nested callbacks. Here, each and every callback takes an argument that is a result of the previous callbacks. In this manner, The code structure looks like a pyramid, making it difficult to read and maintain. Also, if there is an error in one function, then all other functions get affected.

